# Berachain Proof of Liquidity

## Flow 1: Validator Staking using Bera + BGT delegation to Validators 
1. There are three tokens in Berachain: Bera, Bera Governance Token (BGT), and Honey.

2. Bera is the gas token, and is used by Validators to do staking.

3. Berachain is an EVM compliant chain. Their execution is 1:1 EVM, that is all the EVM clients are their clients.

4. During an epoch, the top 10 Validators with most Bera stake is selected to contend for becoming the proposer.

5. Among the top 10 validators, during each slot the proposer is chosen from a distribution where a given validators probability is the ratio of its stake to the sum of stake of the top 10 valdatiors.

6. For proposing the block, the validator receives BGT tokens. 

7. The validator receives a base amount of BGT tokens, and additionally gets bonus BGT tokens. The bonus BGT tokens depend on the boost of the validator.

8. The boost of the validator depends on the BGT held by the validator + delegated to it by the users. The actual value of the boost is computed by a reward emission formula.

9. The users can delegate their BGT to a specific validator. Users can do this by interacting with the queueBoost function. This function allows a user to specify the validator's public key and the amount of BGT they wish to allocate.

10. After queuing the boost, the allocation becomes active following a predefined delay. Once active, the boost increases the validator's effective stake, thereby enhancing their potential rewards.

11. Users have the flexibility to manage their boosts. They can queue a reduction of their boost using the queueDropBoost function and can cancel this reduction before it becomes active if they change their mind.

12. Any user who holds BGT (Bera Governance Token) can delegate it to a validator to enhance the validator's stake and participate in network governance. There is no requirement for users themselves to be whitelisted to perform this delegation.


## Flow 2: BGT allocation to Users
1. Users provide liquidity to whitelisted liquidity pools. The receive LP tokens proportional to the share of their liquidity.

2. To have a liquidity pool whitelisted, projects must submit a proposal through Berachain's governance process. The specific tokens available in whitelisted pools depend on the proposals approved by the community. Therefore, the range of tokens can be diverse, reflecting the assets supported within the Berachain ecosystem.

3. Each LP token is associated with a specific reward vault. This is a one to one relation, that is for each LP token there is one and only one reward vault.

4. The user can deposit their LP token to the associated reward vault. 


## Merge of Flow 1 and 2: Validator reward Flow
1. The additional BGT tokens that the validator receives can be sent to one of the reward vaults. 

2. Validators have the autonomy to choose which Reward Vaults receive their BGT emissions. 

3. This allocation process is facilitated through the Berachef precompiled contract, which manages the distribution of BGT emissions to whitelisted liquidity pools.

4. This contract is responsible for directing BGT emissions from validators to designated Reward Vaults. Validators interact with Berachef to specify the amount of BGT they wish to allocate to each Reward Vault.

5. The users who have provided their LP tokens in the reward vault receive the deposited/allocated BGT token proportional to their contribution. This is the only way users can accrue BGT tokens.

6. Protocols/Liquidity Pools can offer additional incentives, often referred to as "bribes," to encourage validators to direct emissions to their specific Reward Vaults. 

7. To implement this, protocols must first whitelist their incentive tokens within the desired Reward Vault. This involves submitting a governance proposal to approve the token and set parameters such as the minimum incentive rate and token manager address.

8. Validators alternatively may earn a share of the transaction fees generated by the liquidity pools associated with the Reward Vaults they support.